afterwards crunching on the cinder path before the new red houses. One time there
used to go for Harry and Ernest, because she was a girl but latterly he had begun
leaned against the window curtains and in her nostrils was the odour of dusty
print of the promises made to Blessed Margaret Mary Alacoque. He had been a school
of her mother's illness; she was again in the close dark room at the other side
for he was usually fairly bad on Saturday night. In the end he would give her
Besides, the invariable squabble for money on Saturday nights had begun to weary
been ordered to go away and given sixpence. She remembered her father strutting
used to pass it with a casual word:
"He is in Melbourne now."
She had consented
back into the sickroom saying:
"Damned Italians! coming over here!"
As she
He said she used to squander the money, that she had no head, that he wasn't
used to keep nix and call out when he saw her father coming. Still they seemed
to keep the home together as long as she could. She remembered the last night
unknown country, it would not be like that. Then she would be married—she,
where on earth all the dust came from. Perhaps she would never see again those
used to meet her outside the Stores every evening and see her home. He took her
very kind, manly, open-hearted. She was to go away with him by the night-boat to
answered nothing. She felt her cheek pale and cold and, out of a maze of
returning home late under her load of provisions. She had hard work to keep the
to threaten her and say what he would do to her only for her dead mother's sake.
the palpitations. When they were growing up he had never gone for her like he
The children of the avenue used to play together in that field —the Devines,
to go away, to leave her home. Was that wise? She tried to weigh each side of the
nausea in her body and she kept moving her lips in silent fervent prayer.
A bell
be his wife and to live with him in Buenos Ayres where he had a home waiting
the sea with Frank, steaming towards Buenos Ayres. Their passage had been booked.
in a house on the main road where she used to visit. It seemed a few weeks ago.
to her father. Ernest had been her favourite but she liked Harry too. Her father
had gone back to England. Everything changes. Now she was going to go away like
her being—that life of commonplace sacrifices closing in final craziness. She
to have been rather happy then. Her father was not so bad then; and besides, her
Ernest, however, never played: he was too grown up. Her father used often to
found out the affair and had forbidden her to have anything to say to him.
"I know
against the window curtain, inhaling the odour of dusty cretonne. Down far in the
impossible. Her hands clutched the iron in frenzy. Amid the seas she sent a cry of
perhaps love, too. But she wanted to live. Why should she be unhappy? She had a
should come that very night to remind her of the promise to her mother, her promise
And no she had nobody to protect her. Ernest was dead and Harry, who was in the
would be filled up by advertisement. Miss Gavan would be glad. She had always
hunt them in out of the field with his blackthorn stick; but usually little Keogh
had to rush out as quickly as she could and do her marketing, holding her black
terror. Escape! She must escape! Frank would save her. He would give her life,
white of two letters in her lap grew indistinct. One was to Harry; the other was
Eveline. People would treat her with respect then. She would not be treated as her
these sailor chaps," he said.
One day he had quarrelled with Frank and after
to see The Bohemian Girl and she felt elated as she sat in an unaccustomed part
She gripped with both hands at the iron railing.
"Come!"
No! No! No! It was
wholly undesirable life.
She was about to explore another life with Frank. Frank was
avenue she could hear a street organ playing. She knew the air Strange that it
mused the pitiful vision of her mother's life laid its spell on the very quick of
remembered her father putting on her mothers bonnet to make the children laugh.
Her
mother was alive, they had all gone for a picnic to the Hill of Howth. She
right to happiness. Frank would take her in his arms, fold her in his arms. He
of the theatre with him. He was awfully fond of music and sang a little. People
cretonne. She was tired.
Few people passed. The man out of the last house passed on
boy at a pound a month on a ship of the Allan Line going out to Canada. He told
her the names of the ships he had been on and the names of the different
question. In her home anyway she had shelter and food; she had those whom she
church decorating business, was nearly always down somewhere in the country.
distress, she prayed to God to direct her, to show her what was her duty. The boat blew
out a ghost story and made toast for her at the fire. Another day, when their
work—a hard life—but now that she was about to leave it she did not find it a
was becoming old lately, she noticed; he would miss her. Sometimes he could be
mother was alive. That was a long time ago; she and her brothers and sisters
He was standing at the gate, his peaked cap pushed back on his head and his hair
would not cry many tears at leaving the Stores.
But in her new home, in a distant
for her. How well she remembered the first time she had seen him; he was lodging
leather purse tightly in her hand as she elbowed her way through the crowds and
services. He had sailed through the Straits of Magellan and he told her stories of the
insistence:
"Derevaun Seraun! Derevaun Seraun!"
She stood up in a sudden impulse of
tumbled forward over a face of bronze. Then they had come to know each other. He
She sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue. Her head was
house together and to see that the two young children who had been left to hr
mother had been. Even now, though she was over nineteen, she sometimes felt
the money and ask her had she any intention of buying Sunday's dinner. Then she
familiar objects which she had dusted once a week for so many years, wondering
a long mournful whistle into the mist. If she went, tomorrow she would be on
baggages. Through the wide doors of the sheds she caught a glimpse of the black
of the hall and outside she heard a melancholy air of Italy. The organ-player had
charge went to school regularly and got their meals regularly. It was hard
his way home; she heard his footsteps clacking along the concrete pavement and
had an edge on her, especially whenever there were people listening.
"Miss Hill,
photograph hung on the wall above the broken harmonium beside the coloured
herself in danger of her father's violence. She knew it was that that had given her
clanged upon her heart. She felt him seize her hand:
"Come!"
All the seas of the
used to be a field there in which they used to play every evening with other
He held her hand and she knew that he was speaking to her, saying something
had come over to the old country just for a holiday. Of course, her father had
that she had run away with a fellow? Say she was a fool, perhaps; and her place
had begun to like him. He had tales of distant countries. He had started as a deck
house and at business. What would they say of her in the Stores when they found out
follow. He was shouted at to go on but he still called to her. She set her white
knew that they were courting and, when he sang about the lass that loves a
world tumbled about her heart. He was drawing her into them: he would drown her.
anguish.
"Eveline! Evvy!"
He rushed beyond the barrier and called to her to
farewell or recognition.
time was running out but she continued to sit by the window, leaning her head
very nice. Not long before, when she had been laid up for a day, he had read her
had known all her life about her. O course she had to work hard, both in the
people's children. Then a man from Belfast bought the field and built houses in it—
the Waters, the Dunns, little Keogh the cripple, she and her brothers and sisters.
were all grown up her mother was dead. Tizzie Dunn was dead, too, and the Waters
her unspeakably. She always gave her entire wages—seven shillings—and Harry
mass of the boat, lying in beside the quay wall, with illumined portholes. She
don't you see these ladies are waiting?"
"Look lively, Miss Hill, please."
She
Could she still draw back after all he had done for her? Her distress awoke a
not like their little brown houses but bright brick houses with shining roofs.
going to give her his hard-earned money to throw about the streets, and much more,
trembled as she heard again her mother's voice saying constantly with foolish
sailor, she always felt pleasantly confused. He used to call her Poppens out of fun.
friend of her father. Whenever he showed the photograph to a visitor her father
terrible Patagonians. He had fallen on his feet in Buenos Ayres, he said, and
that she had to meet her lover secretly.
The evening deepened in the avenue. The
the others, to leave her home.
Home! She looked round the room, reviewing all its
familiar objects from which she had never dreamed of being divided. And yet
about the passage over and over again. The station was full of soldiers with brown
First of all it had been an excitement for her to have a fellow and then she
during all those years she had never found out the name of the priest whose yellowing
would save her.
She stood among the swaying crowd in the station at the North Wall.
always sent up what he could but the trouble was to get any money from her father.
face to him, passive, like a helpless animal. Her eyes gave him no sign of love or